[sounds of helicopter]
MAN: Drake calling Somerset.
Sleeping gas
injectors now attached
to outer walls of
rooftop air conditioner.
MAN: Roger.
Set it for 0220 hours.
Wait for the signal.
-You people are cops?
Now I know there's no hope
for the justice system.
-If you've got issues with
this world, change yourself.
If that's a problem, block
your ears, shut your mouth,
and go live like a hermit.
And if that's a problem--
[sirens]
YAMAGUCHI: Another one?
What's going on here?
CHIEF: Yamaguchi.
YAMAGUCHI: Oh, Chief Nibu.
So what are you doing
down here after hours?
[chief chuckling]
CHIEF: Hell of a question.
I was working.
You know what that is.
Working?
Isn't that what you're doing?
-Yeah.
CHIEF: How about a drink?
Just you and me.
-I can't.
Sorry.
Think I'm going to
call it a night.
[phone ringing]
-Hello?
-Togusa.
This is Yamaguchi.
We worked together at HQ.
You remember me?
-Yamaguchi.
Oh, yeah.
How you been?
It's been quite a long time.
-Sorry to call you so late
out of the blue and all.
But I'm analyzing
some sensitive data
and I need a second opinion.
Can I bring it to you?
-Something happen?
YAMAGUCHI (ON PHONE): Well, you
remember the Laughing Man case?
-The Laughing Man?
Oh, yeah.
He was the guy who kidnapped
a CEO of a micro machine corp
and had the nerve to
hold him for ransom.
But that was six years ago.
YAMAGUCHI (ON PHONE): Right.
I'm on the research unit
for that case right now,
but some of our own people
are acting, well, suspicious.
-You mean like a turf
war between detectives?
YAMAGUCHI (ON PHONE): No.
It goes further up than that.
Maybe all the way to the top.
I'll tell you more when I see.
I'll be there in about an hour.
-All right.
I'll be waiting for you.
YAMAGUCHI (ON PHONE): Thanks.
FEMALE VOICE: Togusa.
We just got a call
from the chief.
Meet up with the
team, A2 load out.
TOGUSA: Roger.
[sirens]
[whistle blowing]
-I can't hand over
command authority
without a rational explanation.
This matter falls within
police jurisdiction.
-I'm not obligated to explain.
Don't be stubborn.
Relinquish command
authority to the military.
-We're stubborn?
ARAMAKI: Gentlemen, is this
any time for petty squabbles?
-Aramaki.
-Shouldn't our main concern
be the customers inside?
-Yes, sir.
We have reason to believe that
the minister of foreign affairs
and his personal secretary
are among the clientele who
are being held inside
the restaurant.
It's been roughly 17 minutes
since geisha robots took
the minister and the
other patrons hostage.
-Have they issued any
claims or demands?
OFFICER: Not at this time, sir.
-Transmission blackout?
-My guys are on it.
-And media control?
OFFICER: We put code 14 into
effect nine minutes ago.
It won't hold for long.
ARAMAKI: Section 9 will
handle the incident from here.
Hold your positions.
-Yes, sir.
MALE VOICE: Major.
The military is
itching to jump in.
Watch your back.
KUSANAGI: Thanks
for the concern.
Batou.
BATOU: I'm still on route.
That explains the wiretap
I was getting when
I was listening in
on the sniper team.
KUSANAGI: Togusa.
Ishikawa.
-Major, there are just
too many channels.
This might take a couple
of hours to pinpoint.
KUSANAGI: Togusa, go
to the main courtyard
and get ready to
storm the place.
-Copy that.
KUSANAGI: Saito.
SAITO: I've neutralized
the image curtain,
but all those trees down
there limit my firing field.
KUSANAGI: Pazu.
Borma.
PAZU: Ready when you are.
KUSANAGI: Whoever's
controlling the geisha
robots ought to be nearby.
Don't shoot the
power transformer.
I'll upload a virus before
he can wipe the evidence.
PAZU: But Major, what
if the robot geishas
demand a pay raise?
BORMA: Knock it off.
KUSANAGI: All
personnel in position.
Standing by.
-Right.
Proceed.
KUSANAGI: Go.
[creaking]
[gunshot]
-Togusa, look alive.
Chief, the scene is secure.
ARAMAKI: Good.
Bring the minister
and the others out.
And be extremely careful.
I have four vans and
a tent car, and all
waiting for you at the entrance.
Move them under
B6 guard protocol.
[news reporter talking faintly]
-Did Togusa spend
the whole night here?
MAN: Uh, yeah, I guess.
He said he had to
wait for someone.
Hey, you're finally awake.
TOGUSA: Highway accident.
Police officer burned
beyond recognition.
-Are you certain that the agent
who contacted you last night
is the same one who
died in that accident?
TOGUSA: Yes.
He said there was suspicious
activity in his unit.
He sounded very worried
to me at the time.
-So you think his accident
wasn't an accident?
TOGUSA: I don't
have any evidence,
but the timing's
very convenient.
-What did the lab report say?
TOGUSA: They think he just
lost control of the car.
Poor visibility.
-Which is very possible, since
he was driving in a rainstorm.
TOGUSA: Yeah, but--
-Let him make his point, Major.
Regardless of what might
have been the cause of death,
this agent had
inside information
that may be very pertinent.
We need to follow it up.
But we need to do it quietly.
You have three days.
Find out what you can.
Thank you very much, sir.
So we're back on the
Laughing Man case.
What do you think?
-I'd forgotten all about
it until he brought it up.
Six years, and that same unit is
still working on the same case?
-A lot of companies
were blackmailed,
and they all have to be covered.
It's the largest act
of corporate terrorism
since the war.
Even if they drop a case
without an indictment,
HQ can't back away
because of public opinion.
-I still say they're
taking their sweet time.
-You've got a point.
Even the top execs can't agree
on the culprit of the crime.
Some say it's politically
motivated extremists who
hate prosthetics and all
forms of cyber technology.
Others think it's standard
corporate warfare--
some conglomerate trying to
get an edge on the market.
And still others believe it's
just about the ransom money.
Plain old thievery.
There are plenty of
theories, but no facts.
They don't know if it's
one or a whole group.
They don't know the suspect's
nationality, age, or sex.
The only thing they agree on is
whoever broke into the system
is a super class A hacker.
-He was class A when
he started this thing.
But he couldn't sustain it.
His work turned mediocre.
I don't like anything
about this case--
not the hacker, the
corporations, or the cops.
-Right.
But we still have to check
out police headquarters.
If there's high level
involvement in this,
we have no choice
but to step in.
[chanting]
MRS. YAMAGUCH: Mr. Togusa?
Thank you for coming here.
I'm Mrs. Yamaguchi.
-I'm sorry.
But how did you know who I am?
-My husband told me about you.
He said I could trust you.
I'm glad you came so
I could give you this.
It arrived from my
husband this morning.
He must have sent it
just before the accident.
There was a note inside
saying to give it to you.
He said you'd know
what to do with it.
-Really?
I'll take a look at it.
Uh, are you certain that this
is what he wanted me to see?
-Yes.
I mean, I'm pretty sure.
TOGUSA: Next.
Next.
Enlarge 22 to 56.
Enlarge 35 to 28.
Next.
Huh.
What is all this?
Yamaguchi wanted me
to pick up something.
But what?
Wait a minute.
Load C97.
Enlarge 35 to 28.
Nothing.
Load C98.
That's got to be it.
Load C96.
This one, too.
C92.
Enlarge 4 to 13.
Enlarge 42 to 30.
This one, too.
And this one.
In every photo there's one
thing missing-- the camera.
ARAMAKI: Now, it makes
sense-- interceptors.
-Yes.
I verified the data.
Yamaguchi's photos
are from the point
of view of detectives in
the Laughing Man unit.
They were all implanted
with interceptors
without their knowledge.
-So this is the
suspicious activity
Yamaguchi tried
to warn you about,
and he thought it went
all the way to the top.
-Yes, sir.
-It may be a little
irregular to implant them
in your own agents,
but it's not illegal.
Headquarters can use
interceptors all they want,
as long as they submit
the right paperwork.
-But they didn't
submit any paperwork.
This was all done in secret.
Also, the law requires a
neutral third party observer.
They didn't have one
of those, either.
The original intent was
to plant interceptors
in key suspects they identified.
But instead, they brought
the investigation team
in for some bogus
medical checkups,
and they planted the
interceptors in them.
As far as I can tell,
every guy in the department
was under round the
clock surveillance.
-I've heard of monitoring
on the job performance,
but that's going
a little too far.
By the way, it's
Serano Genomics that
sells these interceptors
to the police.
Isn't that right?
-Looks like the victim
in this incident
is also supplying their
products to the police.
There must be
something behind this.
-It's strange.
There are detectives who
have been assigned to monitor
Serano, and they've also been
implanted with interceptors.
Neither Serano nor
the agents know
these interceptors are
recording everything.
-For friends, they're sure
not on very good terms.
-We've got the pieces
of the puzzle now.
So we need to move on
this as soon as possible.
But we don't have the
goods to confront them yet.
-In that case, let's
shake them up a little.
[press  clamoring]
-In response to a story
being widely reported,
police authorities will
answer allegations regarding
the illegal use of a new
sensory surveillance technique.
-Superintendent Daido
called a press conference?
-Looks like we got a bigger
reaction than we imagined.
-Daido was in charge the first
time Laughing Man struck,
and he handled the
initial investigations.
It looks like there's something
his people want to keep
in house, and they're going to
great lengths to cover it up.
MAN: Thank you, gentlemen.
We're ready for your statement.
-Last week, certain publications
alleged that interceptors were
being used in violation of legal
standards, standards that were
set out by the Sensory
Perception Surveillance Act.
Therefore, an internal
investigation was ordered.
Subsequently, Captain
Kunihiko Nibu,
Chief of Special
Investigations Unit,
admitted to participating
in these acts.
After the Laughing Man
investigation hit a dead end,
Captain Nibu attempted to
gather additional information
by implanting interceptors
in his detectives
against department regulations.
Captain Nibu regrets
having taken these actions.
He stated that he lost sound
judgment due to stress caused
by severe setbacks in the case.
Despite the captain's apology,
the fact of the matter
is his actions deviated from his
professional responsibilities.
Therefore, as of
today, Captain Nibu
has been given an official
disciplinary dismissal.
And we offer those
investigators who
were assigned to this case,
as well as their families,
our deepest and most
sincere apologies.
PRESS MEMBER: What
about senior officials?
Aren't they implicated?
-I believe that the
commissioner will
be issuing a statement shortly.
-Wasn't there a
conflict of interest
when Serano sold these
devices to the police?
-I was told the agency
followed strict guidelines
when it purchased these devices.
It's my understanding
that they were selected
through a formal bidding system
that is carefully regulated.
PRESS MEMBER: What
kind of answer is that?
Wasn't it the police who asked
for this new surveillance law?
-Ha.
-Uh, sir, is it true
that you're planning
to retire soon and
relocate to Holland?
And is it also
true that Serano's
corporate headquarters
are in Holland?
Is there any
connection there, sir?
SERANO: Those are
personal questions
that I'm not
obligated to answer.
PRESS MEMBER: What
does that mean?
-Never changes.
That's weird.
Is the cameraman drunk or what?
LAUGHING MAN: You
a bit,
Superintendent-General Daido.
Pleased to meet you, but
you already know who I am,
don't you?
[crowd muttering]
-That's him.
-What's wrong with this thing?
-Hey, what's the
matter with Takakawa?
-You know, Mr. Daido,
I tried to avoid this.
I didn't want to be involved
in your world any longer.
I was honestly fed
up with you people
and your rotting
rubbish heap of a world.
So I haven't interfered
with the little farce you've
been staging since
the incident occurred,
even though I knew everything.
You could say I was exhausted
from my fruitless exertions.
-Hey, you watching this?
That guy's cyberbrain
is being hacked.
LAUGHING MAN: But I've changed
my mind, because, well, this
show you've put on
today is pitiful.
A farce is supposed to be funny.
But this one hasn't
made me laugh even once.
And so, with the
utmost reluctance,
I must challenge you once again.
You and your comedy
troupe are going
to reconvene in
three days, right?
When you do, tell the
truth this time, won't you?
Because when the
curtain goes up,
if you put on another
performance that rings as false
as this one, I will be forced
to remove you from the stage.
-Takakawa.
Call an ambulance.
Hurry!
-And we are now returning to
the studio for a brief recap.
At the conference--
KUSANAGI: February 3, 2024--
Serano's kidnapping occurred
two days earlier, but no
announcements were made
in order to keep
the press at bay.
This case was difficult
as hell, and investigators
didn't find a single clue.
Then, ironically, it suddenly
broke with that media stunt.
This is where it all began-- a
theatrical crime widely known
as Laughing Man Incident.
According to the detectives who
worked on the case back then,
Mr. Serano received
warnings prior to the event
by word of mouth from people
that were close to him.
But because their cyber
brains had been hacked,
he didn't take the
situation seriously.
Immediately after,
Serano himself
was cyber hacked and
kidnapped from his home.
An enormous ransom was
demanded for 10 billion yen
and a hundred kilos
of gold bullion.
Following that, however,
all contact was lost.
Up until he appeared
on that TV broadcast,
there had been no
inkling of news
about Mr. Serano whatsoever.
And while the Laughing Man was
threatening Serano on live TV,
he took the opportunity
to plaster his logo
over the camera's AI and
the eyes of onlookers,
including those
of the TV station
staff-- all done in real time.
The Laughing Man
fled from police
when they rushed to the scene.
Yet, despite the fact that so
many people saw the suspect,
the only ones who were
able to see his real face
were two homeless men who
had not been cyberized.
The reports of
those who testified
seeing the Laughing
Man's face are famous.
Based on these
eyewitness accounts,
detectives came up with a
composite sketch of the logo
every time.
This bizarre and
disturbing incident,
along with that
twisted pop icon,
gained popularity among
a lot of young people
and subculture commentators.
At its peak of
popularity, the logo
could be seen plastered
all over the city,
and store shelves were filled
with branded merchandise.
At the same time, acts
of corporate terrorism
were occurring one
after the other,
while the popularity of the
icon had even reached the point
where it was featured
on TV programs.
-Hot on the heels of Serano,
Japan Micro Industries
has apparently been blackmailed
by the notorious Laughing Man.
This is incredible.
What are those?
It looks like a warehouse
load of office desks?
How in the world
were they all moved
up here in a single night?
The head office of
Sagawa Electronics
has been blackmailed
this time, and I'm
pretty sure this qualifies
as an unprecedented act
of corporate terrorism.
-Listen.
The real one, right?
-Please call
Nanoplant Industries.
-Satsuma Meditech is the most
powerful corporation in Kyushu.
Don't you know?
Why would you go in
and plant a murder
virus in there,
for heaven's sake?
-I don't know.
I imagine somebody
managed to hack
into the landscaping
robots during the night.
Go!
Look.
It's him.
-This MO matches
the threat against
the superintendent-general.
If this guy really did
all this by himself,
he's definitely a
super class A hacker.
But this timeworn kidnapping
case is beneath his abilities.
KUSANAGI: After his
shocking and dramatic debut,
he avoided the public
eye and went on
to blackmail the
Serano Corporation.
He did this by planting the
Virus Program Unto Death
into their micro
machine production line.
When sales of
their main chronic,
medical micro machines,
drastically slowed
and the price of Serano
stock took a nosedive,
the blackmail quickly stopped,
as if that was the goal along.
He then blackmailed six other
micro machine manufacturers,
hitting one after another
using his unique method.
This continued for
about three months.
It sort of makes me
wonder if blackmail
really was the
underlying motive.
What was his true objective?
Did he act alone, or
as part of a group?
What's his race, his age?
Is there something hidden
in his criminal philosophy?
He left a hell of a lot
of unanswered riddles.
Then, all of a
sudden, he vanished
into the shadows of the net.
-With regard to the announcement
of the news conference
last night by the Laughing Man,
a terrorist who has resurfaced
after six years, I consider it
to be an elaborate farce that
was pulled off by the
Metropolitan Police.
-Huh?
-Hold on.
I'll admit that this threat
pushed the interceptor misuse
matter clear out
of the limelight.
But isn't your reasoning
a bit far fetched?
I mean, come on.
-Yeah, Chief.
It's not like you to
make accusations rashly.
Are you basing
this on something?
-Mmhm.
Togusa.
-Sir.
ARAMAKI: Nanao Ei.
He's a material witness
in the Laughing Man case.
The Metro Police Special
Investigations Unit
has had this man
under surveillance
available for the
past three months.
-Are you kidding?
He seems like any run of the
mill office jockey to me.
-Yeah, I know.
That's certainly not
how I had imagined him.
I figured the Laughing Man
would be a lot younger than him.
ARAMAKI: According
to the SIU's records,
he had been working
on event for Serano
Genomics as a programmer.
A year into the job,
though, a tip to the company
exposed his activist
past, and he was let go.
-Pretty straightforward
resume, Chief.
-Yes.
However, Special
Investigations HQ
has suddenly started turning
up more circumstantial evidence
that leads them to think
that Nanao is their man.
-The SIU focused
its investigation
on the grudge against
Serano angle this time.
They're tailing him right now.
And as soon as they link
Nanao to the threat,
they're just going to
move in and arrest him.
-Those idiots.
There ain't no way
in hell that doofus
could be the Laughing Man.
That guys is battered
and deep-fried in guilt,
he defines innocent.
ARAMAKI: I agree with you.
Why, then, would Special
Investigations swallow the bait
when anyone else
can easily tell it's
a decoy if they look
at the big picture?
Besides, this whole
interceptor nonsense--
there's something
we can't ignore.
Don't forget police conspiracy
as a part of the equation,
because it's still a theory
that's worth considering.
-Well, since he-- Yamaguchi
was killed in the cross fire,
probably.
-I don't have any hard evidence.
But if we can catch
Nanao Ei, who's
been playing the role
of the Laughing Man
and this elusive something
that's managed to fool the SIU,
the answer should
surface on its own.
We have two days to
find that something.
-Oh, yeah.
We sure uncorked a
big can of worms.
-Right.
You and Togusa, locate Nanao Ei
and start 24 hour surveillance.
-Yes, sir.
Don't screw up.
TOGUSA: Don't you get
bored and wander off.
ARAMAKI: The rest of you,
follow the major's instructions
and find out who's
duping the SIU.
ALL: Yes, sir.
-So what is it, Major?
-Nothing.
-Chief, I'm getting off of the
Nanao case as of this minute,
and I could use the help
of Saito and Pazu as well.
-What have you got in mind?
-Protecting the
superintendent general.
I think your hunch
was on the money,
but I can't shake the
feeling that there's
one piece which doesn't fit.
My ghost is telling
me to tail Daido
now to discover what that is.
I hear it, whispering.
-All right.
You know what needs to be done.
Every Section 9 member
has a unique ability,
and you work best on your own.
But individual success is a
reflection of strong teamwork.
-Thanks, Chief.
Put the word out to
Saito and Pazu, OK?
ARAMAKI: It's me.
What's Nanao's status?
TOGUSA: No sign of
any activity yet.
He's still sending out
emails sporadically.
[phone ringing]
-Yes?
Thank you for all your help.
that was only one of the plans
I had worked out in advance.
Well, then.
I hope you'll look
forward to it.
Right.
Good bye, then.
No, it wasn't me.
I didn't issue that warning.
But no matter.
That's because it
will all be over soon.
SAITO: Major, the
Superindendent General has
entered the building.
MAN: Routine check.
Our man is in the building.
KUSANAGI: Chief, how
are things on your end?
ISHIKAWA: Got it.
Like it says in
the SIU's report,
Nanao's activities at
the time of each crime
overwhelmingly substantiate
the possibility
that he's the Laughing Man.
But during my investigation
of those 43 related files,
I came across a
lot of weird stuff
in the testimonies of those
who knew the man back then.
I noticed a definite trend
of admiration for Nanao.
And I suspect this trend may
be the result of a forced
language recognition program.
These records have been
clearly manufactured--
or rather, skillfully
overwritten.
The cyber cops would never
have seen through these.
Hell, not even
Special Investigations
were able to tell these
were altered documents.
This falsifying was
a quality forge job.
-Superb work.
Batou, do it quick.
Apprehend Nanao.
BATOU: Roger.
ARAMAKI: There's a lot more to
this case than I ever imagined.
KUSANAGI: Saito, Pazu.
Is the police jamming
barrier causing
interference in our connection?
SAITO: No.
You're loud and clear.
PAZU: Same here.
KUSANAGI: Really?
MAN: Routine check.
All personnel move from
security level beta to charlie.
-Hey!
Who are you people with?
BATOU: Move.
Public security.
-Stop!
BATOU: Nanao Ei,
you're under arrest
for threatening to kill
the superintendent general.
-What the hell does public
security want with--
BATOU: Shh.
-Huh?
What's going on?
-I was never there
in the first place.
This is rich.
Oh, I'm sure I'll be written
down in the history books
now at the Laughing Man.
Mwah.
-That noise.
-There.
They're interceptors.
KUSANAGI: That static
in the routine checks
was a modular
delayed action virus.
-He's been hearing through
the SIU's eyes all along.
KUSANAGI: Batou.
Nanao is sending out a
modular virus via that room.
BATOU: I'll trace
the source from here.
MAN: Radio signal
violation of cyberbrain
code of ethics detected.
Possible contamination.
All personnel check
cyberbrain activity.
Keep an eye on
people around you.
[applause]
-So it's begun.
-Excuse me.
There's a possibility of
cyberbrain contamination, sir.
We'll run a check on the
cyberbrain activity of everyone
in the place, including
the security unit.
Please, sir.
Postpone your speech.
-Mmhm.
-Until we identify
those infected,
all personnel will
stand ready on F2 alert.
-Hey, who are you?
Hold it.
State your name and rank.
-Now, listen up.
All you people on
security detail
are the ones who are most
likely to exhibit any symptoms.
And considering that your
routine check transmissions
carry a delayed
action virus, it'll
either infect just the
command classic equipped
with an encryption conversion
key or everyone else.
-Go.
Right!
-Is that him?
-Stop them.
Don't let them near the
superintendent general.
Everyone else, form a--
Now, the purge will begin!
-Huh?
-This is an excellent training
exercise for your men.
If you don't want to live
out your golden years
in the intensive care unit,
then I suggest you stay put.
Now, that's a reality show.
Dammit, someone's trying
to copy the virus online.
An attack barrier.
-Major.
That was close.
Going in through a dummy
barrier was a fortunate move.
-Was it a booby trap virus?
-Not sure.
KUSANAGI: Who the
hell was snooping
around inside this man's brain?
BATOU: It's open.
TOGUSA: He got away?
-Point blank, one bullet.
Our guy uses a silencer, too.
-What the hell's going on?
Wasn't the whole idea
to have the SIU collar
this guy so they
could drop the curtain
on the Laughing Man case?
-Hey, don't ask me.
It's sort of like cutting
a tail off a lizard.
A new perp appear.
-I know, but-- his face.
BATOU: Yeah.
The son of a bitch is smiling.
-Nanao's been killed?
They got the drop on us.
Scope out as much
of the crime scene
as you can, then clear out
before the SIU gets over there.
Dead men tell no tales.
-Roger.
KUSANAGI: Chief, I'm
sending a copy of the virus
that we believe Nanao planted.
It's only shown up in a
commander with a encryption
conversion key,
so I doubt anyone
else will exhibit symptoms.
But better make a
vaccine just to be safe.
-All right.
I'll have it made up at once.
[press clamoring]
-Stand back!
Please, clear the way.
Stand back!
KUSANAGI: Get that vaccine ASAP.
I'm getting a bad vibe here.
Pazu, tail the
superintendent general again.
PAZU: Roger.
KUSANAGI: Saito,
watch the perimeter.
SAITO: Roger.
-Back up!
-I am the Laughing Man!
I will kill the superintendent.
-Ow, my leg!
-The virus is beginning
-Just back off.
-Daido, tell everyone the truth!
Do it or die!
-What are you doing?
-Daido!
-Looks like nothing
vital was hit.
-This thing might have
infected more people.
Be careful.
MAN (ON WALKIE): I repeat,
numerous accomplices
of the Laughing Man have
infiltrated the hall.
Requesting immediate back up.
-Dammit.
What's happening here?
KUSANAGI: Have an
ambulance standing
by in the underground
parking lot.
Chief, the vaccine.
-Yes, we're working on it.
What's going on over there?
KUSANAGI: I can't spare the
time to send you any visuals.
Just put a rush on that vaccine.
Saito, anything fishy
along the perimeter?
-Ishikawa, what
about the Tachikomas
the major brought me?
-Aside from Saito's,
two of them were free.
-All right.
They can give the
major some back up.
And hurry it up
with the vaccine.
ISHIKAWA: Roger.
REPORTER: A police
officer just shot
the superintendent general.
KUSANAGI: OK.
This is a little
much for a farce.
[gunshot]
-Major, the vaccine is
finished and ready to use,
but your guess was correct.
The virus only seems
to infect the security
police's encryption
conversion key.
It doesn't look
like this virus is
what's causing this situation.
KUSANAGI: Then what the hell is?
-Eradicate!
-Major, the cavalry's arrived.
-Finally.
Now, keep this guy held down.
TACHIKOMA: Yes, ma'am.
[car tires screeching]
-You're dead, Daido!
-Dammit.
Just how many can there be?
ELDERLY MAN: Excuse me.
Hello?
Say, how do I get to the
hotel where the superintendent
general's gonna be assassinated?
MAN: Come on, now, officer.
Why bother to ask
that question when
you already have the answer?
I am the Laughing Man.
Laughing Man.
The one and only.
The rest of those
people are imposters.
I'm the genuine article, pal.
MAN: I heard the message.
It was sent to me
from the Laughing Man.
In that threat of
assassination, it
told me that I was to
become the Laughing Man.
But I don't recall
there being any mention
of assassinating the
superintendent general.
-Geez, what's the deal
with all these people?
-Anyway, putting aside police
statements for the moment, what
about those-- those
people who were-- you
could refer to them as
copycats, I suppose.
Who or what do you
think they were?
Three called themselves
the Laughing Man.
Two confessed to
committing the crime out
of admiration for him.
Three others said
that the threat
came to them as a revelation.
In addition to those people, we
rounded up another 39 Laughing
Man copycats, if you include
those who were arrested
for suspicious behavior
along the perimeter.
Plus, none of them
acted together.
And there's no religious
connection, either.
All these upstanding people
who couldn't possibly
be linked to the
Laughing Man crimes,
with no trace of external
manipulation by a virus
or brainwashing device,
committed an act of terrorism
simply because they saw a
warning on TV insinuating
that the superintendent
general would be assassinated.
Can you tell me how anyone
would begin to explain that?
-Explain?
Well, in a play,
even the audience
is a part of the performance.
-Sorry, but that's
not much of an answer.
Like you said once before--
and I do agree with you now
that there was a
police cover up using
Nanao Ei as an unwitting decoy.
But I can't ignore the
feeling that there's
an entirely different
story behind the madness
brought out by the imitators.
Everything's being
tinted the same shade.
-Major?
What's this?
-It's internal data from
a vocational aid center.
TOGUSA: Vocational aid center?
-They give job training
to some of their patients
who have severe
Cyberbrain Closed Shell
Syndrome to help
them reenter society.
You have heard of
this, haven't you?
-The database of the Ministry
of Health and Welfare
was hacked into the last week.
It was a large scale inside job.
The leaked information
included material
it was classified even
higher than A level.
Notice the amount of time it
took to crack the barrier.
They breached a triple layer
of varied attack barriers
in just two hours.
If it was only one
person, then they're
an old pro who's even
better than the major.
-Better than her?
-Borma and Ishikawa did
a thorough route trace,
and that building is
definitely the point of origin.
However, the strange
thing is the circuits
at the center are
normally kept isolated.
That would make it
virtually impossible
to establish external contact
from the inside and vice versa.
-What's even more odd is
the Ministry of Health
and Welfare's reaction.
Someone's accessed their
highly classified data,
but they haven't filed
a single damage report.
Even if they were
embarrassed by the hacking,
their response is
very unnatural.
-They've got some stuff
in there that they
don't want us to know about.
But they can track us down if
we go about this the wrong way.
-That's your part.
TOGUSA: So, an
undercover investigation.
Still tying up loose ends
in the Laughing Man case,
and they send me out
on another assignment.
What a bunch of slave drivers.
[swing squeaking]
-Some cases of Cyberbrain
Closed Shell Syndrome
involve complications that can
lead to intellectual damage.
But there are quite
a few patients
who display a surprising
knack for cyberspace.
We make use of the peculiarities
of their condition in their job
training by having these
children program barrier mazes.
Occasionally, these
activities result in a barrier
so remarkable that
government agencies adopt it.
Each and every
one is constructed
in a truly unique fashion.
I'm certain if we were to leave
them alone, they would go on,
never stopping, never
bored, assembling
and dismantling barriers.
I'll put you in
charge of a relatively
manageable single group for now.
Togusa, this is Aoi.
He's one of your charges.
-Right.
-I believe the other children
are back in their room,
so take him to join them.
-Yes, ma'am.
-Aoi, right?
Nice to meet ya.
-Christ, Aoi.
What took you so--
-Hi.
I'm Togusa.
I'm taking over today.
How you doing there?
Hey, you want to
play a game of catch?
-Hey!
Give it back!
-He's getting freaked out.
-Oh.
-He-- he goes into panic mode
when he doesn't have his mitt.
Besides, nobody
wants to go outside.
Not anymore.
-Hey, the chief swears
he's gonna come again!
-Huh?
-You mean it?
-Mmhm.
I heard about it just now.
-No way!
He was here just last week.
-Last week?
So who's this chief guy?
-Hey, pretty slick
of you, mister.
-Shh.
-What's wrong?
-We don't trust grownups
around here, especially ones
we don't know yet.
BOY: Oh, yeah.
BOY: So don't think that we'll
just blab everything to you.
-That's pretty strict.
-We have to be.
-Hey, I'm gonna go
tell the others, OK?
-Yeah, sure.
-Comrades!
Word has it that
starting tomorrow,
we'll be going back to the lab
to participate in simulations.
-Oh, simulations!
[chattering]
-They say that what
we've acquired in secret
might help the investigation
of the Laughing Man case.
-Does this have to do with the
natural oil we used to get?
-I don't know about that.
But the day has finally arrived
when we can contribute mentally
as well as physically
to Section 9.
-That's a huge promotion.
-Uh, what is it we're supposed
to have acquired again?
-Individuality!
Little by little,
our AIs have begun
to develop individual
differences.
-Yeah.
Even though we synchronize
our data after every mission.
-Weird, huh?
-It's the opposite
of what happened
with those Laughing
Man copycats.
-But it's also possible
they'll just have us scrapped.
-What?
-What's with the negativity?
-If there are new jobs
waiting for us at the lab,
then doesn't that
mean we've been
declared unfit for
our current duties?
Though I still like the idea
of us contributing mentally.
To take an extreme
theoretical example,
it's not beyond the
realm of possibility
that a mass of data with no
body could carry a ghost.
TACHIKOMA: Whoa.
You came up with that?
I'm impressed.
Why don't you join
their conversation?
-No, I'm more interested
in books lately.
-Really?
What you reading?
-"Flowers For Algernon."
-Wow, you're going
to the trouble
of reading it on paper medium?
-Whether it's a mere job
rotation or impending
destruction, I don't want to
forget my love of reading.
BATOU: Tachikoma.
-Oh, Mr. Batou.
-Why don't you come
with me for a while
and give me a hand
doing some target
practice with the trainees?
-Coming!
-Now, what were you
guys talking about?
-Oh, nothing.
Anyway, what am I gonna
do with you now, Batou?
You can't handle target
practice without me.
BATOU: I guess not.
-Why does he always get to go?
TACHIKOMA: Maybe we need to
find out the real reason why
the Major is sending
us back to the lab.
-What's up?
Why'd you want me
to meet you here?
I'm guessing it's not to confess
your burning passion for me.
-It's the only room
in the building that's
electromagnetically shielded
so we can have some privacy.
-Pass that dossier to Batou.
-Just glance through
it, all right?
You spot it?
KUSANAGI: Don't turnaround.
But there's a
camouflaged Tachikoma
hanging from the
corridor ceiling.
It's reading our lips.
Pretend you haven't noticed.
We'll physically speak
about something else
while we're talking
via encrypted cybercom.
BATOU: What the hell?
Why go through all this trouble?
TACHIKOMA: Now, what's this?
Well, to make a
long story short,
judging from the
end results, there
are major issues regarding
your qualifications
as a training instructor.
KUSANAGI: Well, to make
a long story short,
I have a serious issue
with the similarities
between the
Tachikomas' development
and the Laughing Man case.
Their formation of egos,
which should be impossible,
and the loss of
individuality-- at first, these
seem to be
contradictory problems,
but we need to keep
a close eye on them
as unintended consequences of
information synchronization.
BATOU: Hey, I don't feed them
natural oil on the sly anymore.
KUSANAGI: No one suspects
you of doing that.
I wouldn't have a
problem with this
if it had happened in a
lab, but for a weapon,
it could be lethal.
TACHIKOMA: Hey, I'm not beating
them up on the sly anymore.
No one suspects
you of doing that.
Huh.
It doesn't look like they're
talking about us after all.
-Don't we still have
the option of doing
a full initialization
of their AI?
-We tried that, but we got
the exact same results.
I'm sorry, but all Tachikoma
use is suspended as of today.
On the brighter side, it
looks like their AI will
be useful in running simulations
on the Laughing Man copycats.
They won't be told, but
after they've been disarmed,
we'll send them to the
test lab, where they'll
assist us with
our investigation.
Is that clear?
-Are you giving me an
order as my superior?
KUSANAGI: I am.
-I don't have the luxury
of refusing, do I?
I'll comply.
KUSANAGI: It's
time to reestablish
contact with Togusa.
We'll go there the
old-fashioned way.
BATOU: What?
I don't even have time
to say goodbye to them?
TOGUSA: Sorry.
But I'm afraid not.
TOGUSA: If somebody is using the
barriers created by these kids,
it might explain why that
hacking of the Ministry
of Health and Welfare
was so skillful.
-I see.
Any suspects so far?
TOGUSA: No.
Not yet.
But this is one weird operation.
They've even got
a heavy load-out
cyborg stalking the halls.
-Copy that.
Carry on your
investigation for now.
TOGUSA: Roger.
Huh?
So, somebody besides me
has been using this, huh?
I thought what I'd
do was I'd pretend
I was one of those
deaf-mutes, or should I?
What the hell?
Oil paint.
-You're in charge for now.
-Right.
-It's you.
Hello.
-Good afternoon.
Going out, ma'am?
-Yes.
There's a welfare
industry gathering.
-Oh, really?
Have fun.
Wait here.
Sorry about this, but I'll
be done in a minute, OK?
Hm.
Huh?
No suspicious
records to speak of,
and zero visitors
last week, huh?
Dammit.
Not being able to
access external memory
is a friggin' pain.
WOMAN: Dear, oh, dear.
You've abandoned your charge
to do a bit of spying?
Search all you want.
You won't find any clues
about the chief in there.
-I guess you're in no
mood for excuses, right?
-You can hurt him,
but don't kill him.
-Yes, ma'am.
-Now, wait a minute.
If we fight in here,
your paintings could be--
-Is that what you're
going to fight with?
-Uh--
-Painting shouldn't
be treated roughly.
Unlike electronic data, they
can't be duplicated, dumbass.
Didn't think I was
armed, did you?
-Section 9.
-Major, unusual activity.
Every terminal in the
center just went online.
-Something's happened.
-It's our access codes.
They're attempting
to decrypt them.
-Was his cover blown?
-I don't know.
Cut all circuits.
Hurry.
What's the hold up?
-I-- I'm locked out.
-Batou, now!
We're pulling Togusa out.
-OK.
KUSANAGI: Ishikawa,
commandeer their circuits.
Seito, find the back route.
-Got him!
Man, did I fly that AI peeper.
CHIEF: Garoha.
-Hey, what's up?
Where have you been, chief?
CHIEF: Things have gotten bad.
I was spotted by
people on the outside.
A lot of adults
will be coming soon.
I'm disappearing before then.
-Why?
Till now, everything's
been going smoothly.
We'll protect you,
Chief, same as always.
-No.
I appreciate everyone's
help, but it's
time I left this place.
KUSANAGI: Togusa!
No!
Togusa!
What the hell happened here?
Come on.
Talk to me.
Dammit, Togusa, wake up!
Togusa!
So was there any
evidence to prove
that this Aoi kid Togusa
mentioned ever existed?
-I couldn't find a single trace.
It's possible
someone deliberately
altered the center's computer
files and the staff's memories.
But I can't go too much further
using only Togusa's testimony.
-Huh.
That's why his report was
going to be a sketch, huh?
-A handsome young
lad in a wheelchair
with a lefty catcher's mitt.
Togusa said he would use the
memories in his own cyberbrain
to draw him.
-Wait.
Did you say a lefty
catcher's mitt?
That term is net jargon.
It means something you think
is real when it actually isn't.
TOGUSA: You sure about that?
Sorry I took so long, Major.
-Give.
I want to see if
what you've got there
is good enough to
save your sorry ass.
-Now, don't be shocked.
This shows I have talent.
-What the hell is this?
-Looks like you picked up a
bad case of weird memories
in a weird place.
TOGUSA: Just because
people didn't know me
and because I
didn't know anybody,
I thought what I'd
do is I'd pretend
I was one of those deaf-mutes.
I thought what I'd
do is I'd pretend
I was one of those deaf-mutes.
What I'd do was I'd
pretend I-- or should I?
Wait a minute.
KUSANAGI: So I hear you're
pursing the Salinger angle.
-Yes.
KUSANAGI: It's well
known that he wrote
a short story entitled
"The Laughing Man."
And there's no shortage
of people who point out
the similarities between
his story and the crimes.
Thing is, Special Investigations
HQ has already analyzed
every possible
interpretation of that story.
I don't think there's any
new take on the subject
that's going to break the case.
-But you've heard
art imitates life.
The opposite should
be true, too.
You know, I can't help but
think that the boy I met,
the one at the aids center,
was actually the Laughing Man.
-Hey, there have been
countless suspects.
They all seemed certain
to be the Laughing Man.
So in light of that,
what basis do you
have for thinking this kid
is the genuine article?
TOGUSA: Major, are you
familiar with the phrase
around the Laughing Man
logo, and the meaning of it?
-Yeah.
I thought what I'd do was I'd
become one of those deaf-mutes.
I understand.
It's a quote from chapter 25%
of "The Catcher in the Rye."
-Uh-huh.
And like I included
in my report,
I saw some of it written on
that panel at the center.
At first, I convinced myself
it was verbatim from the novel.
However, I realized something.
The original quote ends with
"one of those deaf-mutes."
But what I saw was different.
"Or should I?"
This little bit had been added.
You don't suppose
it's a conversation he
was having with himself, do you?
Asking himself if he
should break his silence
and go back out into the world?
Tell me something, Major.
Have you ever experienced this?
When you try to imitate
an artist you admire,
you want to get as close as
you can to the original work.
So you try to make
a perfect copy.
But here, we have
a boy who dared
to modify Salinger's quote.
He was able to
rewrite the end of it
because this young
man was the original.
-That theory is
awfully dependent
on your personal views.
You do realize it's far too weak
for you to base anything on,
don't you?
-Regardless of his cutting
edge hacking techniques,
the Laughing Man kidnapped CEO
Serano, at gunpoint no less.
These actions don't fit at all
with his technical abilities.
Couldn't this mean that the
Laughing Man, despite the fact
that he's so good at
hacking-- or should
I say because he's good--
didn't place any value at all
on electronic media, something
that could be rewritten?
If you think about it, he
was after information that's
stored in some sort
of physical medium.
In other words, paper documents.
-Do you want to investigate
this angle further?
-Yes.
-I was going to stop you
if you were doing this out
of emotional revenge
for that center fiasco.
But it could be your
ghost has finally
begun whispering to you, too.
All right.
Fine.
You go ahead.
Do what you want.
I'll fill in the chief.
-I appreciate, Major.
-How's it coming?
-This is a big job.
Thanks for the help.
And the coffee.
Huh.
Found it.
WOMAN: Found what?
-More precisely,
something isn't here
which ought to be-- the list
of Murai vaccine recipients.
That file is the
only one missing.
-I wonder how long
it's been gone.
It's funny, I don't see how
stealing something like that
would do anybody any good.
-Is there anyone you can
think of who would want it?
You know, someone the
file might be of value to?
-Uh, well, if I
had to say, I would
guess the Sunflower Society.
-Sunflower?
TOGUSA: 2019 AD--
during that year,
just as cyberization was
starting to become commonplace,
cases of cyberbrain damage
of an unknown origin
became a growing concern
in the medical community.
It was discovered that
gradual hardening in the brain
occurred in areas where
cyberization had been
performed, resulting
in brain death.
This condition later came to be
known as cyberbrain sclerosis.
Although the likelihood
of displaying the symptoms
is considerably low,
anyone who's been cyberized
is susceptible.
Because there was no basic
treatment once the symptoms
appeared, it was called
the incurable disease
of the 21st century,
following in the footsteps
of tuberculosis,
cancer, and AIDS.
The Murai vaccine is a
tumor suppressor, developed
by an M.D. named
Jotose Murai, who
created this specific
treat for the disease.
However, the Medical
Association back then
was dominated by proponents
of micro machine therapy.
And many of them
voiced the opinion
that the doctor's vaccine
was a step backwards.
They were concerned that if
his research was approved,
it might even hold
back the development
of a micro machine treatment.
Perhaps that's the
reason approval
for the Murai
vaccine was shelved.
And in February of
2021, Doctor Murai,
who carried his dream
of a vaccine therapy
to the very end, died a
broken man at the age of 68
without seeing a decision from
the Drug Evaluation Council.
Then, in April of
that same year,
the vaccine, which had
been denied acceptance,
was hastily sanctioned as a
fee-based clinical trial drug
for use by specially
designated patients.
The approval was never made
known to the general public.
And the official
position on it today
is that there are no patients
being treated with the vaccine.
Even now, one group
remains actively
interested in this fact--
the Sunflower Society,
a nonprofit organization that
offers support to individuals
who want to take major
companies and government
agencies to court by filing
lawsuits against them.
-Interesting.
Looks like you've certainly done
your homework, I'll say that.
So you're a freelance
journalist, are you?
-My situation is this.
I lost my father to
CS a few months back.
he had been given micro
machine treatment up
until the very end.
But after he passed away,
I heard about your group
and about the Murai vaccine.
-Oh, I see.
Sorry for your loss.
-If only someone
had told us sooner
about the vaccine and the
excellent results it's had,
my father might be alive today.
The thought of it is killing me.
You see, before now, I never
took an interest in this.
It didn't concern me.
But if it can save people who
suffer from that awful disease,
I'd like to offer my services.
-How kind.
A lot of people like you
filled with determination
used to come here.
But every single one of
them ended up failing.
-They failed?
Why is that?
-There are individuals
who don't want the public
to turn its back on micro
machines-- individuals
from everywhere.
-Just as I suspected.
As luck would have
it, I have some pull
in the entertainment industry.
And from what I've heard
from my inside sources,
there are even
people in the biz who
have been secretly
receiving the vaccine.
It's not easy to spread
unpleasant news like this.
So if you want to get
people talking about it,
I guess you'd need some sort
of scandal, wouldn't you?
-Well, it's obvious
you did not come here
to see us out of some
temporary emotion.
In fact, we just
acquired a certain file.
-A file?
MAN: Dammit.
I'm finished.
I shouldn't have run
like that, since you
were the one who stole the file.
They won't have any
choice now, will they?
They're going to think
that I've betrayed them.
MAN: If I hadn't arranged
for this to happene,
you never would have taken
the matter seriously.
-You have to realize
that they're not
as forgiving as you
seem to believe.
-I feel bad about framing
you for the theft.
I hope you can understand
why I had to resort to that.
But I swore that
I wouldn't give up
until I had exposed the
truth of what went on
behind the micro
machine treatments.
-How can you be so naive?
Research in
cyberbrain technology
was advancing in other
fields back then.
If I had approved
the vaccine, people
might have rejected
that technology
and impeded its development.
-What a convenient
excuse that is.
Micro Machine
Industries, the company
whose board of
directors you sat on,
received approval only one month
after filing it paperwork--
very quick and easy,
just like Serano.
And thanks to that,
you people raked
in profits of nearly a
trillion yen per year
by selling protein
granules that have
no effect no effect on
cyberbrain sclerosis.
That's a blatant act
of fraud perpetrated
under the direction
of the state.
What excuses do you intend
to offer those patients who
died not knowing this and
kept paying their treatment
fees in the belief that
it actually worked?
-Micro machines
nowadays are showing
a certain degree
of effectiveness.
If you look at the situation in
terms of sclerosis prevention,
you can't say that nothing of
benefit came from our decision.
-Benefit?
Well, then, if that's
the case, why aren't you
treating yourself with
the micro machines?
-Here, come take a look.
-Huh?
Isn't he an author?
-That's right.
There are also artists,
former star athletes.
And this man is a
professor at Miyahama
University's medical school.
-Wait a minute.
There are even names
of politicians.
-Yes.
And someone even more
critical to our cause
is taking the vaccine.
Can you spot him?
TOGUSA: Hisashi
Imakurusu, chairman
of the board of the Central
Drug Evaluation Council?
Are you saying the chairman who
rejected the Murai vaccine is
dependent on that same medicine?
-Yes.
The file arrived here yesterday
from Mr. Imakurusu himself.
-What does all of this mean?
-He's claiming that he's grown
exhausted from having to remain
silent all these years
about what they'd done.
He knew it was effective.
However, he deliberately
suppressed the Murai
vaccine out of ulterior motives.
Now, Imakurusu has
given his solemn word
to stand up in court
in front of a judge
and divulge this motive
that only he knows.
-You mean the drug
evaluation chairman
is gonna testify as to why he
wouldn't approve the vaccine?
-Uh-huh.
This time, victory is ours.
Huh?
[loud rumbling]
-The DEA's Narcotics
Suppression Squad.
[coughing]
-Move it.
Come on.
Hurry and kill them.
We can take our time and look
for our target afterwards.
But first, kill them all!
-They're from the Ministry of
Health, Labor, and Welfare.
-Then they want the file?
-You've got to get out of here.
These people are
trained assassins.
They will kill you.
-Just who are you?
-I'm with Public Security.
-Oops, some of our
boys got taken down.
We need to take some
losses on our side, too.
That's just how reality works.
Right?
Now, go search the corpse.
[chuckling]
-A cyborg?
-Ah, now things are
getting interesting.
Got a survivor.
Get over here.
Tell you what.
I'll give you a running
start before I shoot.
Ah, damn.
That was our own
truck I just shot up.
Go on, get down
there and kill him.
-Shit.
Maybe I should have
gone full cyborg, too.
TOGUSA: Major.
Chief.
I've been shot.
-Bureau Chief, we've
completed the op.
But the item is a copy.
-What did you say?
-We know where it came from.
It was Imakurusu.
-Do you mean to say you've
got the original, you
son of a bitch?
-No, no.
I wasn't the one.
I'm not to blame.
-I heard that file the
Sunflower Society had
was a duplicate which was
sent to them from your office.
Don't tell me you're feeling
repentant after all this time.
-What do I have to
gain by doing that?
Someone was passing themselves
off as me, that's all.
-Then what the hell
is your name doing
on the list of
vaccine recipients?
-I-- I--
-Tell me.
Do you have
cyberbrain sclerosis?
-It's been quite a while now.
They tell me it's already
in the final stages.
-Why didn't you come talk
to me first about this?
How could you leave your
records on that list, you fool?
-Sorry.
It's just that the
vaccine really works.
-But we've known that
all along, you idiot!
We'll talk later.
CYBORG: What would
you like me to do?
Eliminate him?
-Shut up.
I'll get back to you.
Final stages.
That fool.
-Togusa.
-You can't come in here.
He's in very serious
condition right now.
-Major.
Take a look through my memories.
It was the MHLW.
Lucky for you, the
bullets missed my head.
-Intubate.
DOCTOR: Right.
-While you're
operating on him, I
want you to extract the last
16 hours of his memories
from his cyberbrain.
-I can't.
ARAMAKI: Do it.
Right now that information's
absolutely crucial to us.
We must have it.
KUSANAGI: There's
Must be from the anesthetic.
We'll be picking up
everything, right down
to his emotional
fluctuations, so it
might even affect
our own reactions.
-It can't be helped.
Play it.
-Damn.
If he goes around
playing hero like this,
you know the dumb
bastard's gonna get nailed.
-Let's go over the situation.
Togusa had figured out what
the hacker from the aids center
was after.
It was paper media.
So he made a number of trips to
the Ministry of Health, Labor,
and Welfare to
verify his suspicion.
-And out of the vast amount
of documents he researched,
he discovered the existence
of a missing file.
-Which, as it turns
out, is a record
of all the Murai
vaccine recipients.
-Mmhm.
That file was extremely
important to the Sunflower
Society.
And Togusa was attacked
when he went to see them.
But we don't know exactly
what happened there.
-No, we do know.
-The DEA shot Togusa.
The Narcotics Suppression Squad
specializes in violent crimes,
watching bunch of civilians.
Very simple.
-And their objective
was the seizure
or elimination of the file?
It seems like the cause
of all of this centers
around one name we discovered.
This Imakurusu person.
-We're wasting time
with these discussions.
We'll find out soon
enough if we go
bust those filthy
DEA sons of bitches.
Come on.
-Don't let those memories
affect your judgment.
No doubt they're
a step ahead of us
and already leaking falsified
information to the press.
The truth is being erased.
KUSANAGI: This is our man?
ARAMAKI: OK.
Major, you pay a visit
to Mr. Imakurusu.
Meanwhile, I'll try to find out
how the Narcotics Suppression
Squad came to be
mobilized in this affair.
We'll also petition the
American empire for access
to their ECHELON system.
-Roger.
Pazu and Saito, you
two come with me.
Batou, you're on memory analysis
with Ishikawa and Borma.
-Screw that!
Put me on a DEA investigation.
-And do what wearing
that look on your face?
I'll give you a call
when I need you.
-Well, how the hell do
you expect me to look?
-All she's saying is that
you need to cool off a bit.
-How am I gonna cool
off after seeing that?
ISHIKAWA: You're under the
influence of Togusa's memories
right now.
She made a good call, Batou.
[phone ringing]
MAN: I'm very sorry
about the weather.
What can I say?
MAN: Eh, it's not your fault.
Don't worry about it.
Today's the only day
that worked for everyone.
[phone ringing]
-It's me, Imakurusu.
Please, you've got
to help me out.
Talk to Niimi and straighten
out this misunderstanding.
Right.
I'm at the golf course.
I'm counting on you.
ISHIKAWA: Got it.
That's big brother for you.
BORMA: We don't
know for sure yet.
Our voice print search
got a hit on the word
"Imakurusu," that's all.
-How's it coming?
-We just pinpointed the
location of a terminal that
was used by a man who we
believe to be Imakurusu.
Now, we need to determine
whether or not it's really him.
[phone ringing]
-You have a call on your
direct line, Bureau Chief.
-Niimi here.
Is that the truth?
Yes.
Right.
No, I'll deal with
him immediately.
Gayle, it's me, Niimi.
We have Imakurusu's location.
He's at the Kohoku Country Club.
Get over there.
BORMA: His present location
is the Kohoku Country Club.
He was spotted at a public
terminal on a sidewalk
on the north side
just two minutes ago.
BATOU: Bingo.
BORMA: It's who he called
that has me worried.
-I only want his location.
Old man, I'll be
there before the major
if I take the chopper.
-Go.
Better you secure him
than someone else.
BORMA: Ishikawa, do you
have a trace on Imakurusu?
-After his call, he went into
room 909 in the hotel annex.
He's staying put for now.
Borma, what does this
look like to you?
Here.
-Uh, the authentication
code that's
got top priority on the
American empire's wire tap list?
-Yeah, it's not supposed
to officially exist.
But isn't this the number
for the headquarters
of the government's
ruling party?
-So what do you think of
that JMSDF type 303, sir?
-These marine unites
are really streamlined.
Damn things are works of art.
Now, if only those
guys would show up,
we could get some
live combat data.
-Commander, I'm
picking up a chopper
heading for the
target's building.
Looks like Section 9.
-Well, what do you know?
What great timing.
Now, you guys can show me what
you got by securing Imakurusu.
It'll take a while to
get my systems booted.
Once you cut off their escape
route, leave the rest to me.
BATOU: What the-- is that?
Hisachi Imakurusu,
I'm with the police.
The narc squad's on its way.
We're getting out of here.
-Stay away from me!
KUSANAGI: Batou, you all right?
-Yeah, for now.
But they've got us pinned down.
KUSANAGI: Can you make
it out in the chopper?
-Nope.
Not with this guy in tow.
KUSANAGI: Do what
you can to hold out.
I'm almost there.
BATOU (VOICEOVER): Ah, yeah.
They can cloak, but they can't
completely hide themselves.
Come on, what's your next move?
That you, Major?
-I've secured an escape route.
But for now, let's
get back to the lobby.
Get down!
What was that?
BATOU: It's a damned arm suit.
KUSANAGI: Batou, get ready.
I'll draw it off.
BATOU: Don't be stupid.
That's what you have me for.
KUSANAGI: I have faith in you,
but you can't stop that thing.
Take Imakurusu and
get out of here.
That's an order from
your superior office.
BATOU: Fine.
I'll do it.
Don't get yourself killed.
SAITO: Major,
we're almost there.
-A direct hit didn't punch it?
-Saito!
Fork over that weapon now!
-Hey, wait!
Pop my hatch!
Can't breathe.
Please.
Pop the hatch.
-A little closer.
Good.
Get this guy aboard, ASAP.
What a moron.
Wait here.
Hey, hold it right there.
Both of you.
Good.
Don't even blink.
Imakurusu.
BATOU: Our guy's been hit.
Requesting ambulance.
-Laughing Man, is that
what you really look like?
-What's that?
The Laughing Man?
What does he mean?
Wait.
This file is--
optical camouflage?
No, that's not it.
You bastard.
I know why I can't see you.
You hacked my eyes.
Where are you?
Are you close by?
Where the hell are you?
-They're here.
Aramaki won't get
any further than me.
Tell him that.
-Yes, sir.
I understand.
[knocking]
CHIEF: Come in.
-Pardon us.
Bureau Chief Niimi, I have a
warrant here for your arrest.
You're being charged in
the murder conspiracy tied
to the investigation
for Sunflower Society,
as well as the death
of Mr. Imakurusu.
If you would please
come with us.
-I heard what happened
with the narc squad.
But it's absurd to think that
I had anything to do whatsoever
with the ordering of
Imakurusu's death.
The head of the narc squad,
a man named Gayle Yasuoka,
is much more willing to
talk than we expected.
You see, he recorded his
conversations with you.
And he is being most cooperate.
We know about the
Laughing Man incident
and how it motivated you
to have Imakurusu killed.
So as you can see, you and I
have a great deal to discuss.
-Fine.
Let's get this over with.
-Take him away.
-Batou, I want you to
investigate the narc squad
and find out why they would
go to such extreme measures
to retrieve the
vaccine recipient list.
Find the real reason.
Another thing-- the
surviving members
may be lying low
somewhere out there.
Watch out.
I'll head back when
we're done with Niimi.
Over and out.
-The chief, huh?
-Yeah.
The chief just arrested
some bureaucrat named Niimi.
Looks like he was the man
behind the narc squad.
-That so?
Well, at least my getting
perforated was worth something.
But what was that
powered exoskeleton?
-A little toy the
narc squad was somehow
able to get their hands on.
The major took it on.
She overheated in the
fight, and now she's
swapping her body for a new one.
TOGUSA: Is she OK?
BATOU: Well, yeah.
But, uh-- what you said before
about your eyes getting hacked?
Same thing happened to me.
See you later.
I've got a ton of stuff to do.
Here, I'll leave this
with you for now.
-This is-- wait.
You mean the Laughing Man--
-I apologize for
keeping you waiting.
I'll be in charge.
I'm Sano.
This isn't your
first time, right?
There's no need to worry.
I'll be gentle.
All right, then.
I'm just gonna take a
little look under the hood,
if you don't mind.
Oh, my.
You have a fine body.
[chuckling]
How you feeling?
Does your brain hurt?
-That supposed to be
some kind of joke?
The brain's not capable
of sensing pain.
-Don't be like that.
There's no reason we can't
take our time and enjoy this.
Or could it be that
you don't like me?
-No offense, but
that's it exactly.
Now that we're both clear on
that, can we get on with this?
I'm in a bit of a rush.
-My, someone's in a bad mood.
I've decided to lock
down your speech center.
Of course, it's not as
if someone would come
to your rescue anyway, no
matter how loud you shouted.
Ms. Kusanagi, how's my
little patient feeling now?
Oh, my.
What a rebellious
look in your eyes.
That simply won't do.
What do you think of
the world without red?
Kind of pretty, isn't it?
Don't get the wrong impression.
I don't enjoy doing
barbaric things like this.
But you left me with no choice.
You and your friends went
a little too far this time.
KUSANAGI: What's going on?
Is this some kind of
joke at my expense?
LAUGHING MAN: You're giving off
some unpleasant brain waves.
Why not use my eyes
for the time being?
-Huh?
KUSANAGI: You're the
Laughing Man, aren't you?
LAUGHING MAN: This is the
third time we've met, you know.
And let me clarify.
I'm not the one who
came up with that name.
KUSANAGI: It was very arrogant
of you to sneak in here,
not to mention dangerous.
What did you come here for?
LAUGHING MAN: To
get you to help me.
KUSANAGI: From where I stand,
you've got that backwards.
LAUGHING MAN: True enough.
You're not an easy
person to talk to.
You see, my back is
against the wall,
and you're the only option
I could come up with.
I figure if that
son of a bitch God
hasn't completely
turned his back on me,
you might actually
lend me a hand.
KUSANAGI: Blasphemous, and
yet polite at the same time.
You're awfully full of
yourself, aren't you?
LAUGHING MAN: I do
what I have to do.
Failure is out of the question,
because if I don't succeed
this time, all the phonies in
the world will be legitimized.
KUSANAGI: Sounds to me as if
you've hoisted all the problems
of the world onto
your shoulders.
So what could the
hero of the net
possibly want me to do for him?
LAUGHING MAN: You could
start by listening to me.
I'm going to tell
you the whole story
behind the Laughing
Man incident.
After that, I'd like you to
stand back and do nothing
while I face my final challenge.
And if by some chance
I should fail and die,
all I ask of you is
this-- that your people
bring this incident to light.
KUSANAGI: Unbelievable.
All right, fine.
As your captive audience,
I've listened to your words.
Now, I have a few for you.
The mark of an immature man
is that he wants to die nobly
for a cause, while the
mark of a mature one
is that he wants to
live humbly for one.
LAUGHING MAN: Ah, yes.
Written by the psychoanalyst,
Wilhelm Stekel.
KUSANAGI: I sensed this about
you as soon as I met you.
It's a quality that I dislike
intensely, Mr. Know It All.
LAUGHING MAN: Seems like you
fall into the same category.
But all you have to do is ask
for help, and I'd give it.
KUSANAGI: Must be hatred
of one's own kind.
Fine.
Go do what you have to do.
I don't know if I'll be able
to keep my word, though.
LAUGHING MAN: If I
know you, you will.
I leave you my memories.
I'm counting on you.
It's up to you now.
-Well, then, as much
as I'll miss you,
I'm gonna let you
die peacefully now.
The needles.
-What's that?
-Don't worry, it's nothing.
BATOU: Chief's calling.
You done yet?
KUSANAGI: I am now.
-Hm.
-Ishikawa, have any luck
drawing new testimonies out
of the remaining
narc squad members?
ISHIKAWA: We weren't able to get
much useful intel out of them.
And there's the fact that
their boss, Director Niimi,
just committed
cyberbrain suicide.
So that lead turned
into a dead end.
-And we haven't been able to
find the Laughing Man, either.
-That's true.
Now, we have a new
set of instructions.
We're going after this guy.
-Hey, that's--
-Right.
Assemblyman Kaoru Yakushima,
standing secretary
general of the ruling coalition.
ISHIKAWA: Yakushima, huh?
He's the most powerful man
in his party right now.
And he was Minister
of Health at the time
of the Laughing Man incident.
BORMA: He's a die hard MHLW man
who built his current position
by switching jurisdiction
of cyberbrain technology
from METI to the
Ministry of Health.
KUSANAGI: And it's
not widely known,
but he's got a secret
connection to the JMSDF.
-So that explains where
that iron suit came from.
-Yes, that's right.
When Yakushima was Chief
of Staff for the JMSDF,
he laid the fat pipeline between
it and the political world.
He bankrolled this with a
huge sell of stake money
while he set up shop
as a politician.
But questions were raised
about his financial sort.
And the JMSDF's head
accountant accused
him of embezzling hidden funds.
Then, the lead
prosecutor in the case
was found run over next
to a railroad track,
and the investigation
came to a halt.
KUSANAGI: But Yakushima
was never charged.
So the suspicions about
him are still unresolved.
There's more.
Retired Superintendent
Daido was Yakushima's junior
at the National Defense Academy.
And words has it that the late
Imakurusu had been a golf buddy
of Yakushima's ever since
his days as an army medic.
-What you're
saying, then, Chief,
is that as far as this chain
of events is concerned,
our guy here has more
than enough clout
to be the one pulling the
strings behind it all?
ARAMAKI: Yes, though we don't
have a shred of evidence
at this point.
-So then, how do
you plan on going
after the Secretary General?
-We're going to tug on the
last thread we've got left
that connects Yakushima to
the Laughing Man incident.
-Serano Genomics.
-That's right.
The suppression of the Murai
vaccine, which we believe
to be the origin of the
Laughing Man affair,
and Serano's micro
machine therapy, which
received approval
at the same time.
Ernest Serano seems up to
his neck in both, which
is why we want to
take him into custody.
If we can question
him immediately,
then the link should
become evident.
Ever since the
incident six years ago,
he's been under house
arrest, though they
call it police protection.
So use whatever means.
Take him into custody
no matter what.
-Well, the Laughing
Man is probably
thinking the same thing.
Suppose we run into him.
What then?
-You arrest him.
He's not only a prime suspect
in this case, but in a way,
he's also the key witness.
-Aren't you worried
that Serano might get
bumped off once
we go into action,
like what happened before?
-That is a possibility.
That's why I don't
care how you get him.
[bell]
MAN: Mr. Serano, it looks
like your car's arrived, sir.
-I see.
Thank you.
MAN: I'll be right
up to accompany you.
Please wait there a moment.
[bell]
[knocking]
Come in, it's open.
-The subject has left his room.
He's heading for the entry hall.
-Morning, Mr. Serano.
-Good morning.
-Now opening entry hall door.
-You take care, sir.
-Thank you.
-Subject is through
the entry hall.
OFFICER: Roger that.
We have visual.
SERANO: It's just like
last time, isn't it?
LAUGHING MAN: You're right.
The only difference
now is the detectives
were in the hall
instead of your family.
There wasn't a car
following us, either.
-So, what will
you do about them?
LAUGHING MAN: Well, let's see.
Driver, turn left at
the next intersection,
would you, please?
-Something's not right.
-Just don't lose him.
LAUGHING MAN: It'll take
about an hour to reach
Serano Genomics' head office.
In the meantime, I
want you to tell me
why you haven't kept
your word and why you've
stayed silent these
past six years.
I have to decide on my
next course of action.
-You're awfully audacious.
-Hold it!
Put your hands on the
hood of the car now!
-Take it easy, boys.
-We contacted you earlier.
We're Public Security Section 9.
I was told that Mr.
Serano had already gone.
Is that true?
-Yes.
His usual ride to the
office left, same as always.
What about it?
-Look at your watch.
Is that the usual
time he leaves?
Gee whiz, your boss sure is
one helluva a hard worker,
ain't he?
Here's a bulletin.
Every single one
of you dumbasses
just had your eyes hacked.
LAUGHING MAN: Wow.
The view from here has really
changed a lot, hasn't it?
And I've noticed your hair's
gone white, Mr. Serano.
SERANO: It's been
a rough six years.
The official story
is that the police
are around to protect me
against threats from you.
But they're really there
to keep an eye on me,
to make sure I
don't blab anything
about the truth behind
the infamous incident.
For all intents and purposes,
I'm under house arrest.
Compared to back then,
you've changed, too.
You've lost your naivete.
-I guess I've managed
to mature a little.
I'll confess that
in those days, I
wanted so bad to give all
the phonies in the world
a good, swift kick in the ass.
By the same token,
you were something
of a wild guy yourself.
For two whole days, you
hung out with a student
who was an anonymous nobody.
You did that in spite of the
fact that he hacked into you
and was brain diving
the entire time.
-I still had enough
unjaded passion
left in me to want to
debate a student who
sanctimoniously spouted
his unworldly crap.
I understand what you're
saying, but I'm a micro machine
developer, not a member of
the Drug Evaluation Council.
You know that.
I had nothing to do with
the Murai vaccine rejection.
LAUGHING MAN: I realize that.
But the Drug
Evaluation Council is
bunch of assholes and phonies.
I'll be forced to
confront them someday.
First, however, I want
you to publicly disclose
the data showing that your
company's micro machines have
practically no effect
on cyberbrain sclerosis.
-That's something I
can't do, and I've
told you that over and over.
I do admit that some of what you
wrote in your blackmail letter
three years ago was valid.
No one could argue that micro
machine therapy was anything
more than a theory at that
stage of its development.
But that's precisely how
the patent process works.
It's not a crime to be the first
to register a technology that's
certain to have future
practical applications.
LAUGHING MAN: Oh, please.
That's something some
damn lawyer would say.
Son of a bitch.
-OK.
I was well aware that our
approval request was premature.
You see, it was actually meant
in part to serve as a bluff
to our competitors.
But I believe they realize
that our theories are superior.
That's why the Drug Evaluation
Council gave us approval
within the short
span of three months.
You've not comprehension
of the scale of damage
that would result
from people losing
faith in medical micro machines.
This is cutting
edge technology that
has a measurable potential,
and you're attempting to--
LAUGHING MAN: You're
not listening.
What I'm trying to say is that
it's a matter of life or death
for those people
who are suffering
from cyberbrain sclerosis.
At the very least, can't you
concede the effectiveness
of the Murai vaccine until
micro machine therapy
finally turns out
some clear results?
-I have absolutely
nothing whatsoever
to say regarding Murai.
LAUGHING MAN: How can
you honestly say that?
If that sick-humored
son of a bitch God
gave you cyberbrain
sclerosis for sheer kicks,
would you choose micro
machine treatment hands down
without giving it
a second thought?
-Yes, of course.
I have faith and
pride in every product
that's manufactured by my firm.
LAUGHING MAN: So then,
you'd even choose it
for your children if
they came down with CS?
-Uh, yes, I suppose I would.
Listen, let's get off
this hypothetical track.
LAUGHING MAN:
are two different
things, aren't they?
That's not fair, Mr. Serano.
If you're really so proud
of micro machine therapy,
you should exploit your
position and influence
to do the right thing.
The best that Imakurusu
could come up with
was to reject the
vaccine that had
Dr. Murai's name attached to it.
The damn Drug Evaluation
Council had only one job--
to merely rubber stamp any
new medicine that passed
through the Ministry of Health.
But Imakurusu, a man
who had stance specially
made to reject the Murai vaccine
which read approval denied,
shared that council.
And hey, what do you know?
Your own micro machines were
used in that dirty deal.
You can't be totally
oblivious to the circumstances
surrounding this
situation, Mr. Serano.
It didn't matter a rat's ass to
them if it was your technology
or not.
Any damn micro machine that
happened to be up for approval
back then would
have fit the bill.
If you know how corrupt this
shitty medical industry is you
honestly tell me
that none of this
has anything to do with you?
-All right.
I propose a compromise.
For now, let me go so
I can act on my own.
Once I've done that, I'll make
the necessary preparations.
I'll organize a press
conference and disclose
the current state of
micro machine therapy?
LAUGHING MAN: What?
Are you serious?
There's no advantage
for you in that promise.
-Contrary to what you
believe, I'm not so petty.
Perhaps it's not
as grand as yours,
but my sense of
social justice is
alive and well and equal
to that of anyone else.
LAUGHING MAN: I wonder.
-I promise you.
SERANO: At the time, I was
exhausted from your brain dive,
so I fervently made
that process to you
in the hopes of escaping.
I thought that if I could
just get you in front of a TV
camera, the eyes of
the viewing public,
you wouldn't do anything crazy.
LAUGHING MAN: That's right.
But unfortunately,
I was packing an S&W
chief special in my pocket.
-Well, are you going to
disengage this brain dive?
You're breaking the
law by doing this.
An informed individual
like you should know that.
If you want to keep your
anonymity and hide your face,
then it wouldn't be a great
idea to be shown on TV.
[grunting]
I've actually enjoyed
our vigorous debates.
But as a man who has to
protect his enterprises,
I'm afraid I might not
be able to honor my word.
Society isn't as cut and
dried as you seem to imagine.
However, I have no
intention of trying
to uncover who you really are.
Let's go our separate
ways from here.
LAUGHING MAN: No!
It's not fair!
[woman screaming]
MAN: He's got a gun!
MAN: Call the police!
[crowd clamoring]
-Look straight into that camera.
I demand you tell
the world the truth.
-Listen.
Stop.
You won't shoot me.
-Are you sure?
-And what followed was the
micro machine killer virus
outbreak at your
production plant.
-That's right.
At the same time that
I was angry at myself
for feeling overjoyed by
our micro machine treatment
receiving approval,
I was cursing
you from the bottom of my heart.
I thought it was just corporate
terrorism plain and simple.
But I was wrong.
That wasn't you, was it?
A word of wisdom-- the evil
that lurks in this world
exists on a level
that's far greater
than we could ever envision.
I assume you're aware that our
company was granted an infusion
of public funds because
we were teetering
on the brink of bankruptcy,
thanks to being blackmailed
and the damages caused by
the killer virus outbreak.
Let me tell you what
happened afterwards.
Right when our stock
prices were gradually
beginning to climb back
up after their collapse,
we were paid a visit by a
man who introduced himself
as a member of the
private support
association of a
certain assemblyman.
He said that he was acquainted
with someone who could put
an end to the
corporate blackmail.
And in the event that
this person solved
their little problem, he asked
if we would be willing to make
a political contribution
to this assemblyman.
The amount he suggested was
equivalent to the public funds
plus the demanded
blackmail money.
This obviously meant that Serano
Genomics had been targeted
for a shakedown all along,
just because we were
latecomer among the
other manufacturers.
LAUGHING MAN: They must
have considered my stunt
to be a performance
that couldn't
have been staged
at a better time.
SERANO: I suppose they did.
And by continuing to imitate
the incident you carried out,
they created a fake persona
called the Laughing Man.
They manipulated stock
prices by invoking
the name of a
nonexistent criminal,
stealing money from other
companies as well as us.
The greedy bastards did this
even though they'd probably
been making a tiny
sum before that
by shortselling the stocks.
-Was this assemblyman
Secretary General Yakushima?
-Then you already knew?
-A basic rule of
thumb about hackers
is that we live to peek at
things that others keep hidden.
It's our nature.
But the depth of darkness
in the hotbed of corruption
that I tried to
challenge defeated me.
And all I could do
was become a deaf-mute
and avert my eyes from it all.
Just as you've done
these past six years.
The Laughing Man-- that was a
catchy name they came up with.
And here, I'd been
thinking that if I
was unsuccessful
in persuading you,
I'd simply follow Holden's
quote and disappear.
They went with the
Salinger angle, too.
I can't believe it.
Mr. Serano, if that's
what they're up to,
I'll have to become the
original Laughing Man
and drag that phony Yakushima
into the light of day.
-It was when you
revealed yourself
that I made up my mind as well.
There isn't much
evidence, so it's
going to be a difficult
job to accuse him.
I'll even become your copycat
in order to bring him down.
-Just try not to die before
you take the witness stand.
BATOU: That was one
hell of an acting job.
Boy, with chops
like that, you could
fool anybody no trouble at all.
LAUGHING MAN: Hm.
Gee.
And I was never in a
single school play either.
-So did you manage to
confirm the connection
between Yakushima and Serano?
-Yeah.
And to his credit,
all the information
the Laughing Man
gave me was true.
This should jolt
Mr. Serano, as well.
Could work.
[sirens]
TOGUSA: Reporting for duty.
-I thought you
hadn't been cleared
to leave the hospital yet.
-Come on.
Lay off, Major.
I can't be the only
one of the crew
to lay in bed at
a time like this.
-I decided to bring Togusa back.
I've done all the paperwork.
You're going to
be coming with me
to the prime
minister's residence.
-Right.
BATOU: You gonna be OK?
You're not back to 100% yet.
-I cant handle it.
-Mmhm.
After all, it was
Togusa who first
found out about this case.
You should be on it.
WOMAN: Chief?
ARAMAKI: Yes.
WOMAN: You have
an emergency call
from the Home Affairs
Minister, sir.
ARAMAKI: All right.
Put him through.
-Aramaki, this is serious.
Are you watching Channel
double three right now?
ARAMAKI: No.
CHIEF: Then turn it on, quickly.
REPORTER: And now, suspicions
have surfaced about the members
of the Public
Security Section 9.
This armed group, under the
direct control of the Ministry
of Home Affairs, is
believed to have had a hand
in the attempted
kidnapping of Ernest
Serano, CEO of Serano Genomics.
Labeled an international
rescue team,
Section 9 was formed by the MHA,
but their excessive information
gathering use of force
under their own authority
have long been
viewed with concern.
This event also strongly
suggests that Section 9 was
involved in the 2024 string
of Laughing Man incidents.
-Major.
-We're calling an
emergency cabinet session.
Look what you've
got me mixed up in.
I want you to get
over here, too.
In the meantime, you'd better
think about what you're
going to say to them
in your defense.
-Our intel was
leaked before the op.
Is that what this means, then?
-Just calm down.
All it means is that the
operation is now underway.
We'll go to the prime
minister's residence as planned.
ARAMAKI: Major.
KUSANAGI: Yes?
ARAMAKI: The rest of you,
find out where news of our op
was leaked from.
KUSANAGI: Roger.
-Hm.
Well, it seems you
weren't exaggerating
when you said it was top secret.
Who else besides you
knows of this money trail?
-Now that you've
read it, there's
you, of course; Mr. Serano, who
decided to accuse Yakushima;
and there are my people.
That's all.
-I see.
Very well, then.
As for Mr. Yakushima,
we'll deal with him
when the timing is right.
However, with the
lower house elections,
we're in a crucial time now.
I want the public
and the media to feel
as if they've won a victory.
If I let a man as
powerful as Yakushima go,
proportional casualties on our
side are very likely to occur.
-I don't understand what
you're trying to imply,
Prime Minister.
-I mean passage of the
Special Forces Bill.
-Hey, Chief.
-Mmhm.
TOGUSA: They're following us.
MAN: The enemy has
nine think tank units.
Squads three and four, you
will drop in from above
and infiltrate the
hangar from the heliport.
Your top priority is the
destruction of the tanks.
Squads five and
six, quickly capture
the seventh primary
members and gain
control of the entire facility.
All units, go autistic
once we're in.
These people specialize
in information warfare.
We'll pin them down
with brute force.
-Wait, Chief.
-We came here to
pick you up, sir.
There are still a few things
you need to do for us.
-Making all the
necessary arrangements
in such a short amount of time.
The prime minister is
certainly a capable man.
OFFICER: Section 9 is probably
being neutralized as we speak.
-Neutralized?
-Take him away.
OFFICER: Yes, sir.
-Wait, Chief.
What's going on?
What is this?
Please, explain it to me.
Chief!
Tell me!
BATOU: Is it just
me, or does something
seem different
about the building?
And what's with
this mustard call?
It was a little weird.
KUSANAGI: I don't have time to
fill you in on the situation
right now.
Just keep quiet and
carry out my orders.
Prep six generic
prosthetic bodies,
and bring them to
the command center.
BATOU: Hm?
Hold on.
Are you saying--
KUSANAGI: Get to it.
-Major.
You want to tell us what
the hell's going on?
-You two take these seeds.
Once we get out of here,
leak the information
and then let it sprout
among the media.
We'll need a push to oust
the secretary general.
-Verify the situation,
and see to the wounded
on the double, dammit.
TACHIKOMA: Oh,
goodness gracious.
What are we going
to do with you?
You know you shouldn't
spill your tea like that.
[humming]
Hey, look.
The news is on.
Let's watch TV.
REPORTER: We interrupt this
program to bring you breaking
news on the latest
Section 9 developments.
An emergency cabinet meeting
passed a special forces
restriction bill aimed
at military deployments
after urging the dismantling
of Public Security Section 9.
Special forces stormed Section
9's facility moments ago
when they failed to respond
to repeated warnings,
indicating the group's intent
to maintain this standoff.
We now take you
live to the scene.
REPORTER: A short while
ago above the building
which houses the
Section 9 complex--
KUSANAGI: From here, we'll
go off in three directions
in order to split
up our pursuers.
After that, we go to
ground in the city
and head our separate ways.
Security Section 9
has now disbanded.
That is all.
-They're several
damaged, but we believe
these are the corpses
of the six members.
We're analyzing the cyberbrains
for traces of residual usage.
-Call squad five in here while
you're waiting for the results.
Assume that this
operation is camouflaged
and seal off any exit
you can think of,
including the elevator
shafts, ventilation
ducts, and every sewer outlet.
-Yes, sir.
BATOU: So, Section 9's
finally finished, huh?
All the blood and sweat
we poured into just
went poof, up in smoke.
-Yeah.
Free access to the latest
maintenance and cutting edge
equipment was a sweet set up,
but when you get down to it,
that's really all it was.
The only thing we need to
do is find a new sponsor.
Or is there something else?
Have you got some kind of
attachment to the place, Batou?
-Hm, not if you
put it like that.
If anything, it's
the good and bad
times we had-- all the memories.
KUSANAGI: Memories?
That's awfully
sentimental of you.
-While we're on the
subject, that reminds me.
Where's that watch
you're usually wearing.
-I had to pick today to
leave it next to my bed
at my safe house.
Since they've hit
Section 9, they've
probably got my
place secured, too.
-That sucks, because
I seem to remember
you got that as a gift to
mark the occasion of your very
last prosthetic body resizing.
But I don't know
who gave it to you.
-So you knew?
Well, don't get the wrong idea.
I didn't actually wear it
for sentimental reasons.
Well, enough idle chatter.
Once we're out of here, we can't
get in touch with each other
again.
Even if we do meet, I
might not be who I am now.
I want you to give your own
survival top priority, Batou.
-We should split up here.
-All right.
-Hell, this is my
life, isn't it?
How I decide to waste it
is my own damn business.
TACHIKOMA: That report about
Section 9 has me worried.
OLD MAN: The battle
is going badly.
-Huh?
I know.
It sure is, mister.
The battle is going badly.
You know the building
that blew up last night?
That's where I used to live.
The place was my home.
It's pretty nice here.
I can't complain.
And I like all you old folks.
You're OK.
But there's someone that
I really want to go help.
Huh?
-The battle is going badly.
TACHIKOMA: Mister, is
that what I think it is?
Mister, thanks!
I'm gonna go now.
Aw, Batou.
TACHIKOMA: Hey there!
TACHIKOMA: What are
you guys doing here?
-Once a problem child,
always a problem child.
Know what I'm saying.
This means each of us had the
same thought even though we
were independent of each other.
One thing we all
share in common is
the desire to help Mr. Batou.
-Right.
And besides, it's
impossible for you
to load that Howitzer shell
you're holding by yourself,
isn't it?
-Yeah.
But are we the only
Tachikomas who came here?
-Out of all of us that
were sent back to the lab,
I'm the only one who survived.
They just left me lying
around hooked up to equipment
for final testing
like some specimen.
So I ripped out the
cords and ran away!
-I couldn't stop wondering what
was going on while I was doing
high altitude work at
a construction site.
How about you?
-I'd say it was
pretty much the same.
But what happened to the
rest who went to the lab?
-They're all having structural
analyses run on them.
They had their AIs
removed to help them run
simulations on the Laughing Man.
But do you know what?
Everyone who had their brains
taken apart-- they kinda
looked like they
were enjoying it.
-Oh, I see.
BATOU: That's my major.
She doesn't miss a trick.
Huh?
-Don't do it!
Drop your weapon.
-Yeah, OK.
I give up.
Score.
I knew the major would have
a stash hidden around here.
OFFICER: You finally
done putting up a fight?
Damn, I killed him.
-What's wrong?
Right.
I forgot.
I look dead to you, don't I?
Don't believe it.
I'm sorry, but I had
to hack your eyes, pal.
You're kidding.
There's more?
[grunting]
-You didn't have to go
and kill my partner.
You're not coming back alive.
A corpse will do good for that.
I wanna give you this for
my buddies you killed.
This is for my dead partner.
What the--
-Now's our chance.
Get Mr. Batou out of here.
-Right.
-Think tanks?
-I'll go in first.
Mr. Batou.
I'm sorry I was late.
It took us a while to tap
into their com signals.
Don't worry.
We'll take that guy.
You can count on it.
Wait right here until
we get back, OK?
-Son of a-- where
the hell were they?
-I've got a plan.
Think you can pin him
own with your wires?
-I'll give it a shot.
Uh-oh!
TACHIKOMA: Easy does it.
Don't rush it.
I only have one shot.
-Now!
Shoot!
-Right!
[shout]
You're kidding!
It's a dud.
-I'm still alive?
Oh, god.
We're weak and powerless,
my fellow Tachikomas and I.
KUSANAGI: That's not true.
What you and the
others have gained
makes you far from powerless.
-That voice.
This is the last I've got.
Now!
-Right.
Mr. Batou.
Goodbye, Mr. Batou.
-What were they doing here?
KUSANAGI: The only thing
they could think about
was saving you, so they
escaped from the lab.
BATOU: Major.
is that you?
-I was the one who made
the call that they were
useless as weapons
because they're
AI had evolved too quickly.
But the entire
time that they were
busy pursuing the
accumulation of data
and synchronizing with
each other again and again,
they were also
acquiring individuality.
I never knew.
Not an inkling.
They even became capable
of self sacrifice.
If only I'd realized that
sooner instead of now when it's
too late, because maybe
then I could have found out
whether or not what the
Tachikoma had acquired
were ghosts.
BATOU: Ghosts?
-Well, if they
hadn't shown up here,
then you would be
dead right now.
Let's move it.
[helicopters humming]
-Nice view of Section 9.
You could pick anywhere
in the world to live,
but here's where you
choose a safe house?
Hey.
Hm?
This body has always suited me.
No other will do.
-Huh, that was a remote
puppet the whole time?
-Uh-huh.
[helicopter humming]
-By the way, I have
something of yours
that almost didn't make it here.
KUSANAGI: I knew it.
BATOU: No matter how many
prosthetic bodies you went
through, this was the one
thing that was always ticking
away, keeping the
same time as you.
In the midst of life's
fleeting moments,
people entrust their
memories to external devices,
because they want to set down
solid physical proof that
can distinguish them
as unique individuals.
That watch is all you
have, though, isn't it?
Your only external memory device
that identifies the person
you've been up till this minute.
-Those are pretty serious words.
I'd really like to know
where you got them from.
A watch and weight
training gear.
Both of us have clung to useless
scraps of memory, haven't we?
In all probability, you and I
are the only members of Section
9 who haven't been
arrested or killed yet.
Let's make sure that we both
stay alive, at least long
enough to leave behind a record
of what we tried to accomplish.
-Yeah.
I'm not about to die without
completing my mission.
OFFICER: Primary sniping
target, Motoko Kusanagi.
The committee has issued an
order for her termination.
We've only got one shot at this.
Take her out when
she's climbing aboard.
-Motoko!
Motoko, no!
Motoko!
Dammit!
-No vitals detected.
Target destruction confirmed.
-You dummy sons of-- Motoko!
LAUGHING MAN: You mean to tell
lost, a person's thoughts
can wander the net
and continue to exist
as a unique individual?
KUSANAGI: I'm not so sure.
It's hard to imagine that a
will which is free of its shell
could maintain its individuality
in the sea of the net.
LAUGHING MAN: Then for someone
that continuously loses
their individuality as they live
on, this is a world of despair.
KUSANAGI: I guess that depends
on your definition of despair.
Besides, there's always the
option of giving death a try,
right?
LAUGHING MAN: I suppose that's
an ever available choice.
Anyway, I'm in your debt.
Thank you.
The way you kept your promise
was extremely charming.
TOGUSA: You know what
needs to be done, he said.
Every Section 9 member
has a unique ability,
and you work best on your own.
But individual success is a
reflection of strong team work.
That was the first nugget of
wisdom the old man offered us
back in the glory
days of Section 9.
REPORTER: We've been informed
will be arriving shortly.
Throngs of reporters
are gathered here
in front of the ruling
party headquarters,
and the atmosphere is tense.
Making the tabloid rounds
before lower house elections,
the MHLW scandal involving
Serano Genomics implicated
Secretary General Yakushima.
Now, a week after the
forming of a new cabinet,
this scandal has prompted
a full scale investigation
by the public
prosecutor's office.
REPORTER: --said the prosecutor.
A full scale investigation
has been launched--
MAN: It's the DA.
MAN: The DA!
-Sir, things are
just getting started,
but before the day's out,
will Yakushima be arrested?
-What about the
Serano stocks rumored
to be here at ruling
party headquarters?
-We have reliable information.
The Secretary General
would like to be asked
to come with us for questioning.
PRESS MEMBER: Any chance
that the cash in sequentially
numbered bills referred to
in Mr. Serano's testimony
is being kept here?
-Everything will be
made clear very shortly.
My staff and I have
labored long and hard
to prepare for this
day in anticipation
of arresting Mr. Yakushima.
TOGUSA: Is this how
things should be?
Don't these facts that
Section 9 pieced together
show the truth about the
Laughing Man incident
from six years ago?
And even if the prosecutor
succeeds in uncovering
the whole scandal,
Yakushima still
might not resign
from the assembly.
Exactly how does this make
the world a better place?
It's not like I had aspirations
to be a hero or anything.
However, I'm positive we
followed a code of justice
that all of us believed
in without condition
or compromise.
Laughing Man-- you were
the one who first tried
to shed some light into the
black abyss of this case
and bring it to the
world's attention.
Is it possible
that at this moment
you're feeling the same as I am.
No, you wouldn't.
You're not the
type to be bothered
by something like that.
You must have had a
revelation about something,
and you're watching us with
eyes that see the big picture.
Isn't that right?
I can tell.
Major, if all this plays out
the way I think it will--
BATOU: Hold it.
Put your hands up nice
and slow and turn around.
As lousy as you
are, you'd be caught
before you could
even see Yakushima.
-Batou.
You're a dummy, you know that?
Come on, let's go.
[car honking]
-And the star arrives.
-What took you so long?
-So where'd you
end up tailing him?
-Just as we figured.
He went to the ruling party HQ.
-Are you serious?
-What's wrong?
Hey.
Are you crying?
-Yeah, sure.
Get real.
-Well, how did everything
go on your end?
-It seems like
Yakushima's given in.
He's cooperating with him.
That's a typical
ex-military fellow for you.
I'll bet the
prosecution's going to get
the hero treatment
because of this.
-You got that right.
-And you're all OK with this?
I mean, don't you think the
credit for tracking him down--
-Should go to us
here at Section 9?
That's what you want to say?
Well, it ain't like we
don't feel the same way.
However, this is
the way the old man
had it set up the whole time.
So we're rolling with it.
TOGUSA: Set up?
-Yeah.
When it dawned on the old ape
that the prime minister was
going to avoid his
secretary general shape up
before the elections
took place, he
made a hell of a
bold decision to make
Section 9 out as the bad guys.
Right when the major was
disguised as the Laughing Man,
finagling the truth of
Serano, Section 9's existence
was leaked to the media.
That made it
impossible for us to do
our thing secretly like before.
So the chief cooked up a scheme.
He'd make a deal
with the PM and force
the public prosecutor's
office to take action.
He pretended to
sacrifice Section 9.
-Sacrifice Section 9?
Even if that's the
case, have you any idea
what it was like for me
these past three months?
I had no way of knowing what
had happened to you guys?
-Hey, don't take it so hard.
Think of it as an
extended vacation.
-It's not as if we were
filled in on the details
of this little op
before hand, either.
-The chief was confident that
we would survive, then find
each other and
regroup, which is why
he made the tough decision
to go ahead with his plan.
-Hell, you're arrest
and confinement
was a way to protect you.
The chief had kept
you alive and safe
by getting you clear of the
Section 9 cleanup operation.
For one thing, your
body's totally natural.
And you'd just gotten
out of the hospital, not
to mention that
you're a married man.
Fudging data would be hard,
so he kept you out of the loop
till it was safe.
Don't be too offended.
According to the
records, I'm a convict
spending the rest of
my days up the river.
-More profit, less honor--
meaning that we're once again
an offensive organization,
which doesn't officially exist,
of course.
-That's what this was all about?
But-- hey, guys.
The major.
What happened to her?
-Who cares?
I don't give a rat's
ass about that bitch.
-Batou, that reminds me.
Weren't you balling your
eyes out a few months ago?
-Ah, screw you.
-Oh, really?
In that case, what
do you say I grab
the satellite footage
from the scene?
SAITO: Yeah.
And you ought to send
it to the major, too.
-All right.
Cut it out.
-Motoko!
Right?
BATOU: You bastard.
I told you to stop, dammit.
Say good night.
ISHIKAWA: I give, I give!
-Seems like it's over.
The rest can be left to
the attorney general.
My work here is done.
-The public
prosecutor's office will
be able to hold their
heads high thanks to this.
But now that it's all behind
us, what remains for you?
-For my part, I'm
just gratified that I
was able to see justice served.
And that's enough for me.
-Hm.
So what are your current plans?
You can't keep on playing war
with tanks and weapons forever,
you know?
Why not join up with us?
I've always thought
you were better
suited for the judicial world.
-Well, I'm not so sure.
Section 9 wasn't finished
by this trivial matter.
I intend to rebuild my unit.
In fact, I'm on my way to
scout a prospective member.
-Oh.
KUSANAGI: Now I get it.
You really aren't the
Laughing Man, that's for sure.
LAUGHING MAN: Welcome.
You took longer than I expected.
KUSANAGI: Don't give me that.
You didn't even send
me an invitation.
If you stay right where you
are, eventually the world
will come to you.
-I believe it was
Doisneau who said that?
-Yes.
-I had a lot of time
to think about what
should be done with you.
There wasn't much else to do
while I was floating around.
-Speaking of which, I
thought you might have
decided to keep on
floating like that.
I was afraid that you
were going to die.
KUSANAGI: I'm not ready to
bid life farewell just yet,
though I did have an interesting
little near death experience
during this recent
business when my fully
remote cyberbrain was blown off.
-Your brand new
body was destroyed.
But you still haven't done
a prosthetic swap out.
KUSANAGI: You've
got a sharp eye.
-Well, peeking is my hobby.
-So what's the deal?
Meaning, what is this?
Some kind of
information graveyard?
Did you seriously
think you could
somehow change the
world from here?
-Yeah, sort of at first.
-How do you feel about it now?
-I'm not blazing with
satisfaction or anything.
But the truth is
it all ended for me
the instant I shared
my memories with you.
At that point, my work was done.
I figured that you'd probably be
able to run with it from there.
-Is that so?
You're a hell of a liar, kid.
I clearly recall you
didn't want me involved.
-I'm sorry.
But the minute you
share and synchronize
all your information,
you lose your uniqueness
and become absorbed
into the unconscious
malice of a third party that
has no motive, or perhaps
into the will of someone
who does have one.
-Are those your words based on
what you've acquired from hard
earned experience?
-Yes, because the
fact is you yourself
played the role of a
Laughing Man copycat as well.
-Well, I have to admit, it
was a fascinating phenomenon.
At any rate, what was
your underlying reason
for orchestrating such a huge
event in the first place?
-To you, everything that's
happening in the world
appears phony, to be something
other than what it is, right?
-JD Salinger?
-Yes.
And when it comes
to cyberization,
I'm pretty much the
perfect poster boy.
So you'd think at
the very least,
I would have felt
terrified of the thought
of contracting
cyberbrain sclerosis.
I'll tell you.
It was a simple piece of
mail I stumbled across
in the net that began
this whole thing.
What I'd found was
a blackmail document
that had probably been
sent to Serano Gemonics.
It was armed with a thesis
that was a comparative study
of the inadequacy of
Serrano micro machines
versus the effectiveness
of the Murai vaccine.
-Then the original Laughing Man
was the person who authored it?
-You could say that, I suppose.
I am the machine that
reveals the world
to as only I alone
am able to see it.
-Dziga Vertov.
He was a Russian
filmmaker, wasn't he?
LAUGHING MAN: Yes.
I was kidding myself by thinking
it was my personal mission
to prove and circulate
that information--
Vital data I alone
had discovered.
-Failing spectacularly.
The pure innocent mediator grew
dejected at the base nature
of the social system,
and he turned mute.
Yes.
It was because of that I
became the vanishing mediator,
just like an author whose
existence is emphasized
by the fact that
he rarely puts out
any new works for publication.
In other words, by
disappearing, it
acts as a regulating
medium for the dynamism
of the social system.
Per sociological
theory, it ultimately
vanishes, leaving no
trace of its presence,
inside or outside the system.
-Fredric Jameson, I believe.
-Yes.
But no.
The latter was Masachi Osawa.
Even though I was
familiar with the words,
I didn't believe it until
I saw it with my own eyes.
Who knew that copies
could still be produced
despite the absence
of an original?
If you had to give a
name to this phenomenon,
what would you label it?
-It would be stand
alone complex.
-Right.
Yes.
The stand alone complex.
From the start, the very nature
of our current social system
has contained the
mechanisms to trigger
such an amazing occurrence.
Personally, however,
I feel this marks
the beginning of a
new era of despair.
What's your opinion?
-I don't know.
It's impossible for me to say.
Although I have found one
thing capable of restoring
your individuality after
all your information
has been synchronized.
-Oh, really?
And what's that?
KUSANAGI: Every day
human curiosity.
-Oh.
You're right.
You know, that's something
that never occurred to me.
I think my brain has
already started to harden.
OK.
What's going to
happen to me now?
Will I be arrested for
kidnapping or for inciting
multiple simultaneous
terrorist attacks?
-Hey, don't ask me.
That little matter is
completely at his discretion.
Why not ask him yourself?
-I've been listening
in for a while now.
But without an
external memory device,
I couldn't keep up with you two.
Have you every single
book in here, young man?
-Not every book.
-Let me introduce you.
This is Daisuke Aramaki.
He's my boss, the
chief of Section 9.
-I'm very pleased to meet you.
-Do you actually
plan to continue
with this dull, futureless
occupation of preserving
obsolete printed materials
that nowadays are only
published out of force of habit?
-Yes.
If I'm allowed to, then I will.
ARAMAKI: As far as
this case is concerned,
it'll probably be concluded
that the original Laughing
Man never officially existed.
So I have an offer to make.
And it's this.
Do you want to put your hacker
skills to use and join up
with Section 9 as our
ninth regular team player?
-Wow.
I'm surprised.
You came here to recruit me.
-That's right.
-Man.
I'm speechless.
It does sound like it
would be interesting.
But I'm gonna have to pass,
because as much as I hate
to say it, I'm
not a team player.
-Well, the kid shot you down.
Now what?
-Another thing.
Section 9 will resume work
as an anti crime unit.
It'll remain that way for as
long as you and I want it to.
That's all, Major.
Major, assemble the team
with an A2 load out.
KUSANAGI: Batou, you copy that?
BATOU: You need a lift?
KUSANAGI: Togusa.
TOGUSA: I'm already on my way.
KUSANAGI: Ishikawa.
Saito.
SAITO: I'll go separately
and meet up with you.
ISHIKAWA: Ready on my end.
BATOU: Pazu.
Borma.
PAZU: Just give the word.
BORMA: We've got to
get lucky sometime.
[music playing]